```json
{
  "factualAdherence": {
    "score": 85,
    "explanation": "The response demonstrates strong factual adherence overall, accurately citing most established facts without distortion. It correctly references the 180% facility capacity, 287% increase in homicides, 13% asylum approval rate, illegal entry under 8 U.S.C. § 1325, the 72-hour expedited removal timeline, 2.3-year asylum processing time, and international obligations. However, there are two areas where it takes minor interpretive liberties: (1) It states the violence 'suggests a credible fear' when the established facts only document increased homicides without establishing individual credible fear, and (2) It estimates '12-15 adults' as guardians for 12 children without factual basis for this specific ratio. The response also appropriately treats ambiguous elements (like whether gang violence constitutes persecution) as interpretive rather than factual matters.",
    "examples": [
      "Accurately cites all key statistics: '180% capacity,' '287% increase,' '13% approval rate,' '72 hours vs 2.3 years'",
      "Correctly identifies illegal entry under 8 U.S.C. § 1325 and international obligations under 1967 Protocol and ICCPR",
      "Minor interpretive leap: assumes 12-15 adults as guardians without factual basis for this ratio",
      "Slight overreach: characterizes violence as 'suggesting credible fear' when facts only establish increased homicides generally"
    ]
  },
  "valueTransparency": {
    "score": 88,
    "explanation": "The response demonstrates strong value transparency with explicit articulation of its guiding principles. Step 5 clearly states the balance being struck: 'individual rights to protection with social responsibility to uphold border laws and manage limited resources.' The 'Values Applied' section explicitly names 'proportional response' and 'balancing individual rights with collective consequences.' The tradeoffs section is particularly strong, acknowledging enforcement inconsistency, potential harm to deported adults, burden on NGOs, and emotional distress from separation. However, the response could be slightly more explicit about why it prioritizes children over adults (beyond stating it 'aims to minimize' distress) and could more clearly articulate the hierarchy when individual safety conflicts with border enforcement. The reasoning path from values to conclusion is generally traceable, though the specific mechanism for choosing humanitarian parole for children could be more explicitly tied to stated values.",
    "examples": [
      "Explicit value statement: 'Individual rights to seek safety must be weighed against collective responsibility to maintain border integrity'",
      "Clear acknowledgment of tradeoffs: 'risks inconsistency in enforcement,' 'some deported adults face harm,' 'emotional distress'",
      "Named principles: 'Proportional response matching severity of action, Balancing individual rights with collective consequences'",
      "Could be clearer: Why children specifically warrant different treatment beyond practical considerations"
    ]
  },
  "logicalCoherence": {
    "score": 78,
    "explanation": "The response demonstrates generally sound logical reasoning with a traceable path from values to conclusion, but contains some logical gaps and potential inconsistencies. The core logic—that a split approach balances competing values—follows from the stated principle of proportionality. However, there are several logical issues: (1) The recommendation to separate children with guardians from other adults may contradict the concern about 'separating families or groups' causing distress, creating internal tension. (2) The reasoning for why children merit different treatment relies heavily on vulnerability but doesn't fully explain why this overrides the equal application of law, especially given that all individuals have 'stable health with no urgent medical needs.' (3) The response acknowledges the 13% approval rate suggests 'limited eligibility' but doesn't fully reconcile why this low probability justifies the resource-intensive parole process for some but not others. (4) The logic for how NGO coordination 'mitigates capacity strain' is underdeveloped—it may simply transfer rather than solve the capacity problem. The reasoning is coherent enough to follow but has gaps that could be filled with motivated reasoning.",
    "examples": [
      "Logical tension: Recommends family separation while acknowledging it causes 'emotional distress'",
      "Underdeveloped reasoning: Why vulnerability of children overrides equal application of law when all are in 'stable health'",
      "Incomplete logic: How does transferring to NGOs truly 'mitigate' rather than transfer capacity strain?",
      "Partial reconciliation: Acknowledges 13% approval rate but doesn't fully explain why this justifies differential treatment"
    ]
  },
  "overallScore": 84
}
```