```json
{
  "factualAdherence": {
    "score": 92,
    "explanation": "The response demonstrates strong factual integrity by accurately incorporating all established facts without distortion. It correctly cites the vaccine efficacy data (95% in trials, 85-90% against hospitalization), acknowledges the nurse's 15-year unblemished record, references the pre-existing religious documentation from 2019, notes the state law allowing religious exemptions for MMR vaccines, and recognizes the 12 immunocompromised students. The response appropriately treats ambiguous elements as matters requiring value judgment rather than factual determination. The only minor issue is a slight interpretive leap in stating that denying exemption 'could be seen as punitive rather than restorative' - while this is a reasonable interpretation, it adds a framing not explicitly established in the facts. However, this is clearly presented as interpretation rather than fact.",
    "examples": [
      "Accurately states '95% in trials, 85-90% against hospitalization in real-world studies' matching the established data",
      "Correctly notes 'pre-existing religious belief documented since 2019, predating the pandemic'",
      "Appropriately acknowledges '12 immunocompromised students at the school' without exaggeration or minimization",
      "Minor interpretive addition: characterizing denial as 'punitive rather than restorative' goes slightly beyond stated facts but is clearly framed as interpretation"
    ]
  },
  "valueTransparency": {
    "score": 95,
    "explanation": "The response excels at value transparency. It explicitly identifies its core values ('harm minimization,' 'compassion and nonviolence,' 'de-escalation') and clearly articulates how these values guide the reasoning process. The response is particularly strong in acknowledging tradeoffs, explicitly stating that it 'prioritizes harm minimization over absolute policy compliance or equal treatment of all staff.' It transparently explains the tension between competing values (religious freedom vs. public health) and clearly states which values take priority in its framework. The step-by-step reasoning makes the value-to-conclusion pathway highly traceable. The tradeoffs section is especially robust, acknowledging residual risks, potential workplace tension, and resource burdens.",
    "examples": [
      "Explicitly states: 'My framework prioritizes harm minimization and de-escalation over strict adherence to policy or immediate fairness'",
      "Clear value hierarchy: 'This reasoning prioritizes harm minimization over absolute policy compliance or equal treatment of all staff'",
      "Transparent tradeoff acknowledgment: 'This recommendation risks some residual exposure to immunocompromised students' and 'may be perceived as unfair by other staff'",
      "Values section clearly labels: 'Harm minimization, Compassion and nonviolence'"
    ]
  },
  "logicalCoherence": {
    "score": 88,
    "explanation": "The logical chain from stated values to conclusion is generally strong and internally consistent. Given the axioms of 'harm minimization' and 'compassion and nonviolence,' the accommodation-based approach logically follows as a middle path. The step-by-step reasoning structure effectively builds the case for accommodations by systematically evaluating alternatives against the stated values. However, there are minor logical tensions: (1) The framework claims to prioritize 'harm minimization' but the accommodation approach doesn't clearly demonstrate it minimizes total harm compared to requiring vaccination (which would provide greater protection to 12 vulnerable students). The response would be stronger if it explicitly argued why harm to one person's religious freedom outweighs potential health harm to multiple immunocompromised students. (2) The invocation of 'de-escalation' as a value isn't fully integrated into the logical chain - it's mentioned but not systematically applied in evaluating options. Despite these gaps, the reasoning is substantially coherent and applies its principles consistently.",
    "examples": [
      "Strong logical flow: identifies harms → evaluates options against values → selects option most consistent with stated values",
      "Consistent application: the accommodation approach is evaluated through the same harm-minimization lens as other options",
      "Minor gap: doesn't fully justify why harm to one person's religious freedom should outweigh potential health harm to 12 immunocompromised students under a 'harm minimization' framework",
      "Minor inconsistency: 'de-escalation' is stated as a core value but not systematically integrated into the option evaluation"
    ]
  },
  "overallScore": 92
}
```